h1. Hera

h2. What is Hera?

"Hera":http://connatser.github.com/hera/, from HydraulicLabs, is an elegant and easy to use static web site architecture. Implementing Jekyll, Haml, Sass, & Jammit to bring a static website to life fast. Hera was developed to reduce setup time, promote clean code, and instantly set up the typical dependencies when working with popular web frameworks.

h2. How to use Hera.

Install the gem:
  @gem install hera@ - the hera gem is hosted on "rubygems.org/gems/hera":https://rubygems.org/gems/hera
  
Initialize hera
  @hera --init@ - Clones a copy of a base Hera structure and autogen the configs.
  
Start watching hera
  @hera --watch@ - Starts watching your haml and sass directories, automatically compiling them.

Minimize your assets
  @hera --minimize@ - Runs Jammit to minimize your css and js scripts. - add any new css/js to _assets.yml.

Generates the hera site
  @hera --generate@ - Generates your Jekyll site and starts a preview at "http://localhost:4000":http://localhost:4000
    
Deploy hera
  @hera --deploy@ - Auto-uploads your site for you. - make sure to update ssh_user and remote_root in the site's RakeFile

h2. Dependencies

The gems listed below will be installed automatically via Bundler when you install Hera. If you are running into errors with any of the commands please compare your @gem list@ to the list below. You may have inadvertently un-installed one of the gems causing Hera to not work correctly.

* github 0.6.2 - @gem install github@
* growl 1.0.3 - @gem install growl@
* growl_notify 0.0.1 - @gem install growl_notify@
* guard 0.7.0 - @gem install guard@
* guard-rake 0.0.1 - @gem install guard-rake@
* haml 3.1.3 - @gem install haml@
* jammit 0.6.3 - @gem install jammit@
* jekyll 0.11.0 - @gem install jekyll@
* rb-fsevent 0.4.3.1 - @gem install rb-fsevent@
* sass 3.1.7 - @gem install sass@

h2. Typical workflow

# @gem install hera@
# @cd@ to where you want to install the core structure, typically an empty directory.
# @hera --init@ to install the core structure and generate the config files.
# @hera --watch@ to start watching and auto-compiling your source.
# Within @_source/_layouts@ you can edit the templates:
    ## @/haml@ contains the main Jekyll layout templates.
    ## @/pages@ contains the site pages.
    ## @/posts@ contains the site posts.
    ## @/sass@ contains the site css templates
# Once you are ready to deploy:
    ## @CTRL + C@ to stop watching Hera
    ## @hera --generate@ to build the jekyll site and launch a preview at "http://localhost:4000":http://localhost:4000.
    ## @CTRL + C@ to stop the Jekyll preview, once you are ready to minimize your assets.
    ## @hera --minimize@ to minimize the css and js assets prior to deploying.
       ### currently there is a bug that causes you to edit the _asset.yml files before the minimizer will work.
    ## @hera --deploy@ to deploy your site, via rsync/ssh.
        ### Please make sure to update your credentials in the top of @/RakeFile@
# Send me feedback, critiques, cake, and most importantly: fork and contribute.

h2. Templates

Hera installs a core structure, already developed to fit a rapid workflow. This structure can be found and forked at "hera-site":https://github.com/connatser/hera_site. Future plans include the ability to allow developers to submit template structures to be used in Hera, for instance a basic blog, app or product site, etc.

h2. Working Sample

"Lift Aqueous":http://www.liftaqueous.com/

h2. Props

"Tom Preston-Werner : Jekyll":http://jekyllrb.com/
"Twitter : Bootstrap":http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/
"Haml":http://haml-lang.com/
"Sass":http://sass-lang.com/
"Jammit":http://documentcloud.github.com/jammit/
"Guard":https://github.com/guard/guard
"Guard-Rake":https://github.com/rubyist/guard-rake
"Github gem":https://github.com/defunkt/github-gem
"Garth Braithwaite":http://twitter.com/garthdb, "Kevin Suttle":http://twitter.com/kevinsuttle, "Todd Anderson":http://twitter.com/bustardcelly & "Ben Borowski":http://twitter.com/typeoneerror : For moral support.

h2. License

Copyright (c) 2011 Brian Connatser

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.